
Job 38:1-23; 42:1-5				  (Vespers, 2nd  reading)
      
Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said:“Who is this who darkens counsel by words without knowledge?Now prepare yourself like a man; I will question you, and you shall answer Me.“Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? Tell Me, if you have understanding.Who determined its measurements? Surely you know! Or who stretched the line upon it?To what were its foundations fastened? Or who laid its cornerstone,When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?“Or who shut in the sea with doors, when it burst forth and issued from the womb;When I made the clouds its garment, and thick darkness its swaddling band;When I fixed My limit for it, and set bars and doors; When I said, ‘This far you may come, but no farther, and here your proud waves must stop!’“Have you commanded the morning since your days began, and caused the dawn to know its place,That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, and the wicked be shaken out of it?It takes on form like clay under a seal, and stands out like a garment.From the wicked their light is withheld, and the upraised arm is broken.“Have you entered the springs of the sea? Or have you walked in search of the depths?Have the gates of death been revealed to you? Or have you seen the doors of the shadow of death?Have you comprehended the breadth of the earth? Tell Me, if you know all this.“Where is the way to the dwelling of light? And darkness, where is its place,That you may take it to its territory, that you may know the paths to its home?Do you know it, because you were born then, or because the number of your days is great?“Have you entered the treasury of snow, or have you seen the treasury of hail,Which I have reserved for the time of trouble, for the day of battle and war?Then Job answered the Lord and said:“I know that You can do everything, and that no purpose of Yours can be withheld from You.You asked, ‘Who is this who hides counsel without knowledge?’ Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I did not know.Listen, please, and let me speak; You said, ‘I will question you, and you shall answer Me.’“I have heard of You by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees You.