[0;32;49m
Matthew 26:57-75				  (Matins 3rd Gospel)
      
And those who had laid hold of Jesus led Him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled.But Peter followed Him at a distance to the high priest’s courtyard. And he went in and sat with the servants to see the end.Now the chief priests, the elders, and all the council sought false testimony against Jesus to put Him to death,but found none. Even though many false witnesses came forward, they found none. But at last two false witnesses came forwardand said, “This fellow said, ‘I am able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days.’”And the high priest arose and said to Him, “Do You answer nothing? What is it these men testify against You?”But Jesus kept silent. And the high priest answered and said to Him, “I put You under oath by the living God: Tell us if You are the Christ, the Son of God!”Jesus said to him, “It is as you said. Nevertheless, I say to you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power, and coming on the clouds of heaven.”Then the high priest tore his clothes, saying, “He has spoken blasphemy! What further need do we have of witnesses? Look, now you have heard His blasphemy!What do you think?” They answered and said, “He is deserving of death.”Then they spat in His face and beat Him; and others struck Him with the palms of their hands,saying, “Prophesy to us, Christ! Who is the one who struck You?”Now Peter sat outside in the courtyard. And a servant girl came to him, saying, “You also were with Jesus of Galilee.”But he denied it before them all, saying, “I do not know what you are saying.”And when he had gone out to the gateway, another girl saw him and said to those who were there, “This fellow also was with Jesus of Nazareth.”But again he denied with an oath, “I do not know the Man!”And a little later those who stood by came up and said to Peter, “Surely you also are one of them, for your speech betrays you.”Then he began to curse and swear, saying, “I do not know the Man!” Immediately a rooster crowed.And Peter remembered the word of Jesus who had said to him, “Before the rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.” So he went out and wept bitterly.[0m